---
description: Understand the files and folder structure of an Epic API project.
---

# Project structure

This page provides an overview of the Epic API project's file and folder structure. It covers all the files and folders within the project.

### Main top-level files

<table><thead><tr><th width="220">File</th><th>Description</th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>deno.json</td><td>Deno configuration file.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>import_map.json</td><td>Project's import map file.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>serve.ts</td><td>The main entry point of the project.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>database.ts</td><td>Contains a database class for setting up a custom database driver. By default, Epic API uses MongoDB with Mongoose ODM. <a href="examples/replace-mongodb-with-typeorm.md">See how to change the database here</a>.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>.sample.env</td><td>Sample environment file. A sample env file is used to create the default environment files. This file can also be used to add the dummy environment variables in a plugin context.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>index.d.ts</td><td>Project's type declaration file, used to override the default typing. This file also also used to load the plugin's typing in the main project.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>plugins.d.ts</td><td>This file is used to load the plugin's typing into the main project. Do not edit this file.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Dockerfile</td><td>A default docker file that you can use to build a docker image of an Epic API application. <a href="https://docs.docker.com/">See how to use docker.</a></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>docker-compose.yml</td><td>You can quickly spin up a docker container using this default docker-compose file.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>i18next.ts</td><td>Contains an i18next class that is used in the project internally for API response translations</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Misc files

<table><thead><tr><th width="219">File</th><th>Description</th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>.sequence.json</td><td>In Epic API, resource logic like (controllers, models, middleware etc.) are loaded in the project automatically. This file allows you to control, how these files should be loaded.</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Top-level folders

<table><thead><tr><th width="218">Folder</th><th>Description</th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>env</td><td>This folder contains the environment variable files.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>controllers</td><td>This folder contains your controller files. A controller is a <code>class</code> that contains your application's services and routes. The main business logic of your application lives here.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>models</td><td>This folder contains the database models. By default, the Epic API consumes MongoDB with its built-in <a href="https://jsr.io/@oridune/mongo">ODM</a>.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>middlewares</td><td>This folder contains the request middlewares consumed by Oak.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>hooks</td><td>It contains the request interceptor (hook) logic, which is executed before and/or after the request handler execution.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>jobs</td><td>This folder contains the logic of your application that will be executed only once, when the application is started.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>plugins</td><td>Epic API supports the popular plugin system like <a href="https://wordpress.org/">WordPress</a>! This feature enables developers to write minimal code and use existing logic to build faster.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>assets</td><td>Keep your project <code>assets</code> and resources in this folder. This folder also keeps the assets in a plugin context, and they are automatically resolved for a specific plugin.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>core</td><td>This folder contains the core logic of an Epic API project, which is automatically handled by the framework. It is <strong>not recommended to modify</strong> the code in this folder.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>public</td><td>Want to serve static content like a <a href="https://react.dev/">React.js</a> application, HTML, or other files? This folder contains your static websites. <a href="examples/serve-static-website.md">See the static website server docs for more details.</a></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>templates</td><td>Epic API promotes less coding development, allowing you to create/consume template code in this folder. Execute the <code>deno task create</code> command to use these templates.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>terraform</td><td>This folder contains your terraform configuration.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>tests</td><td>This folder contains your application's test files. Testing is important for a production application.</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
